lang: jp

This song is actually one of the songs that really pushed me over the edge to try and make this website (which explains why it is the first song on the website too, I suppose).

It was shown to me by a friend and I have listened to this song over and over so many times now. I am always compelled by the emotion I hear in the singer's voice and his words, however, for some bits of the song it's just a bit too fast for me and I can't fully understand it unless I were to, say, slow it down and properly think about the lyrics/translate the lyrics myself (hint hint) or find a translation somewhere.

Well, the thing is, I've looked and looked and there doesn't seem to be an English translation of this song anywhere on the internet. Even for just the transcription of the song, I could only find one source: [http://www.nextenglish.net/en/jpop/2805](http://www.nextenglish.net/en/jpop/2805) (I ended up transcribing the lyrics myself as well though, because the one on that website was the transcription of a variant of the song, which had slightly different lyrics).

This is my first time seeing a song that seems to be so popular yet unpopular at the same time --- it's got 4.4M views on YouTube at the time of writing [[screenshot](https://i.imgur.com/8Cf2C7t.png)]. I haven't found a single English comment in the comments section so far though. Perhaps this suggests that this song is popular in Japan but not very popular elsewhere.

I wonder if this translation will help more non-Japanese-speaking people find this song. I hope so. It's a good song.

---[革命]---

乾杯！
誕生日おめでとう！
いやあしかしあっというまだよな
俺たち今年２６だぜ

いやあしかしこの前の飲み会も
めっちゃめっちゃ盛り上がったよな
アイツ目覚めたら逗子にいたらしいぜ

笑えるよな？
いやあ俺たち本当に幸せもんだよ
デッカイ夢があって
それを語り合える友達がいて

女はいないけど
酒はうまいし
悪くない！

悪くない。。。
とは思うんだ。。。

けどさ。。。
いや、全然大した話じゃないんだけど
俺お前に言わなくちゃいけないことあるんだよね。。。

そういやさ
飲み会の帰り道突如やってくる
あの虚しさ。。。
あれ。。。なんだろうね

---[Kakumei]---

Kanpai!
Tanjyoubi omedetou!
Iyaa shikashi atto iu madayona
Oretachi kotoshi ni-jyuu-roku daze

Iyaa shikashi kono mae no nomikaimo
meccha meccha moriagattayona
aitsu mezametara zushi ni itarashii ze

Waraeru yo na?
Iyaa oretachi hontouni shiawase mondayo
dekkai yume ga atte
sore wo katariaeru tomodachi ga ite

Onna ha inai kedo
Sake ha umai shi
Warukunai!

Warukunai...
to wa... omounda...

Kedo sa...
Iya, zenzen taishita hanashi jyanaindakedo
ore omae ni iwanakucha ikenai koto arundayo ne...

Sou iya sa
Nomikai no kaerimichi totsujo yattekuru
ano munashisa...
Are... nandarou ne

---[Revolution]---

Cheers!
Happy birthday!
Ah~ but I guess there's still a while to go huh?
We're gonna be 26 this year ya know

Ah~ but the drinking party we just had-
it was super super crazy wasn't it
When that guy woke up, he seemed to be in Zushi

Ah~ but us guys really have it so good
We dream big dreams
and have friends to talk about them with

I don't have a girl but...
The sake tastes good
This ain't bad at all!

Ain't bad at all...
I think.

But uh...
I mean-... It isn't a big deal or anything at all
but there's something I have to tell you

Come to think of it,
That sudden wave of emptiness on the way home from the drinking party...